{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16240\viewh17940\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Scratch.app  The Scratch.app Viewer for Scratch Projects on the iPhone or iPad.\
By John M McIntosh, Corporate Smalltalk Consulting Ltd \
johnmci@smalltalkconsulting.com\
\
http://www.mobilewikiserver.com/Scratch.html\
\
This is the source code tree for building Scratch.app on the iphone or ipad. It compiled and worked for iOS 4.2. \
You must configure the info.plists to use a proper identifier as part of creating your required Mobile Provisioning Files. \
There is limited free support from us beyond getting it to compile & run, we do of course welcome paid consulting.\
\
The last version in the App store was 1.4. The 1.5 version contains some important changes related to the graphics engine. In the summer of 2010 we moved towards using Open/GL versus CALayers for the drawing. This improved the graphics drawing cycle by at least 30%.  We had hoped to be back in the App store in September 2010, but this did not happen. \
\
The ScratchSourceCode1.4JMM.38 is the last image source for Scratch.app 1.5d which did not make it to the app.store\
It is modified version of the Scratch.image to enable us to interface with the Objective-C api, plus some work to have Scratch put up iOS dialogs instead of Morphic dialogs.  That image is saved as Scratch.image with the Scratch Save image in user mode feature for bundling in the Scratch.app \
\
The platforms directory is a copy of the the Squeak source tree but with some additions to enable us to completely terminate the Squeak VM and restart it when Scratch.app takes a walkback message, technically we terminate and garbage collect the entire environment then restart. \
\
Additional Objective-C source code in CSCScratchiPhoneInterface is responsible for wrapping the Squeak VM and presenting a display. \
\
You can build and present the Scratch image outside of "user mode" there is limited functionality and you will soon realize that touch, tap, and the keyboard interaction isn't handled well by the mouse pointing device focus of the Scratch.image. However it does of course respond to tap & drag events, plus allow keyboard input. Obviously it's difficult to deal with the CNTL, Option, CMD key modifiers, but the eToy folks have been exploring options. \
\
License: \
\
The majority of the code is under the MIT Scratch License. \
http://info.scratch.mit.edu/Scratch_License/1.4License\
\
Additional Squeak image components are under \
http://www.squeak.org/SqueakLicense/\
\
The Squeak VM source code is under\
http://www.squeak.org/SqueakLicense/\
\
The Squeak IOS platform, the changes made to  the original Scratch image, and the Scratch.app support code are under : \
\
 Copyright (c) 2008 Corporate Smalltalk Consulting Ltd. All rights reserved.\
 MIT License\
 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person\
 obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation\
 files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without\
 restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,\
 copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following\
 conditions:\
 \
 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be\
 included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
 \
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES\
 OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND\
 NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT\
 HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,\
 WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING\
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR\
 OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
 \
 The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any, must include the following acknowledgment: \
 "This product includes software developed by Corporate Smalltalk Consulting Ltd (http://www.smalltalkconsulting.com) \
 and its contributors", in the same place and form as other third-party acknowledgments. \
 Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, in the same form and location as other \
 such third-party acknowledgments.\
\
}